# 3.2 Passport Auth

When deploying Passport to your application's servers for the first time, you will likely need to run the `passport:keys` command. This command generates the encryption keys Passport needs in order to generate access tokens. The generated keys are not typically kept in source control:

```shell
php artisan passport:keys
```

If necessary, you may define the path where Passport's keys should be loaded from. You may use the `Passport::loadKeysFrom` method to accomplish this. Typically, this method should be called from the `boot` method of your application's `App\Providers\AuthServiceProvider` class:

```php
/**
 * Register any authentication / authorization services.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function boot()
{
    $this->registerPolicies();

    Passport::routes();

    Passport::loadKeysFrom(__DIR__.'/../secrets/oauth');
}
```

> Loading Keys From The Environment

Alternatively, you may publish Passport's configuration file using the `vendor:publish` Artisan command:

```shell
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=passport-config
```

After the configuration file has been published, you may load your application's encryption keys by defining them as environment variables:

```env
PASSPORT_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
<private key here>
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"

PASSPORT_PUBLIC_KEY="-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
<public key here>
-----END PUBLIC KEY-----"
```

> Migration Customization

If you are not going to use Passport's default migrations, you should call the `Passport::ignoreMigrations` method in the `register` method of your `App\Providers\AppServiceProvider` class. You may export the default migrations using the `vendor:publish` Artisan command:

```shell
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=passport-migrations
```

> Client Secret Hashing

If you would like your client's secrets to be hashed when stored in your database, you should call the `Passport::hashClientSecrets` method in the `boot` method of your `App\Providers\AuthServiceProvider` class:

```php
use Laravel\Passport\Passport;

Passport::hashClientSecrets();
```

Once enabled, all of your client secrets will only be displayable to the user immediately after they are created. Since the plain-text client secret value is never stored in the database, it is not possible to recover the secret's value if it is lost.

> Token Lifetimes

By default, Passport issues long-lived access tokens that expire after one year. If you would like to configure a longer / shorter token lifetime, you may use the `tokensExpireIn`, `refreshTokensExpireIn`, and `personalAccessTokensExpireIn` methods. These methods should be called from the `boot` method of your application's `App\Providers\AuthServiceProvider` class:

```php
/**
 * Register any authentication / authorization services.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function boot()
{
    $this->registerPolicies();

    Passport::routes();

    Passport::tokensExpireIn(now()->addDays(15));
    Passport::refreshTokensExpireIn(now()->addDays(30));
    Passport::personalAccessTokensExpireIn(now()->addMonths(6));
}
```

> The `expires_at` columns on Passport's database tables are `read-only` and for display purposes only. When issuing tokens, Passport stores the expiration information within the signed and encrypted tokens. If you need to invalidate a token you should `revoke` it.